SOURCE: https://www.theglobeandmail.com/arts/colour-him-funny/article4152789/
============================================================

'It's not easy being green," lamented colour-conscious amphibian Kermit the Frog in his signature song. His complexion, he sang, caused him to "blend in" leaving him feeling passed over and ignored " 'cause you're not standing out like sparkles on the water or stars in the sky."

What Kermit didn't acknowledge was that being conspicuous can be a lot tougher. Just ask Kenny Robinson, a Toronto standup comic who is currently making a big splash in Canada's entertainment pond.

Growing up "beige," as he refers to it, in Manitoba during the early 1960s was, "very hard. Winnipeg was predominately Ukrainian and eastern European peasant stock; so, being a child of a mixed marriage, I was always the minority. When I lived in Chicago, if you're a kid of an interracial marriage, no matter what neighbourhood you're in, the best you can do is pass."

These days, Robinson is doing more than passing. He's excelling.

At 43, the married father of three is making waves: He's a popular on-air personality of The Morning Rush Show of Toronto urban radio station FLOW 93.5; the star of The Comedy Network's upcoming 10-week series After Hours with Kenny Robinson ;and, he remains the creator/producer of Yuk Yuk's longest-running theme show, The Nubian Disciples of Pryor , which serves as a forum for fostering the careers of young comedians of colour and a classroom for marking the distinctions between what whites and blacks find funny.

Much like his main "dog" Richard Pryor, whose grandparents ran a brothel and pool hall in Peoria, Ill., Robinson carries what could be called a colourful history.

"My grandfather was a, was a, was . . ." He hesitates, barely suppressing a chuckle: "An entrepreneur by the name of Lovey Joe. Having a son and sick wife interfered with his gambling and his book-making and pimping, so he sent him [Robinson's father, Ken Sr.]up to Winnipeg to be up with my father's mother's sister."

There, Ken Sr., an African-American born in Philadelphia, later met and married Melsom, a white Winnipeger of Norwegian/Danish descent.

At the University of Winnipeg, where he studied drama, Kenny Robinson learned that "all the plays were traditionally white roles so, me with a big afro at the time, nobody was thinking of casting me for anything."

Taking the stage on his own terms at Winnipeg's Royal Albert Arms in 1977, Robinson kick-started his career by doing impressions of "dead Warner Brothers guys."

With Winnipeg offering little opportunity for an ambitious young performer, Robinson headed east to Toronto in 1981, packing up a " '68 Thunderbird with everything I own." Armed with a substantial stage presence, he quickly developed an arsenal of standup material that busted guts like a Gatling gun. Yet, as his white pals began to score shows on television or parts in films, Robinson remained on the bench.

"Like anything else," he muses, being a comic of colour, "has its plusses and minuses, but I don't have time to keep track -- I just keep swingin'."

Yet it was Robinson's colour that proved a plus for Denham Jolly, president and chief executive officer of FLOW 93.5. In preparing to apply for his FM licence three years ago, Jolly solicited support from Robinson's capacity crowds at Yuk Yuk's Nubian nights by passing around petitions.

Of the effusive response Robinson has been receiving for his work on FLOW's The Morning Rush Show ,Jolly says: "So far we are quite pleased."

A recent piece in Toronto's Now magazine that criticized the urban FM upstart for "pandering to white-bread suburbanites" found Robinson responsible for having "helped rescue it from life support."

His prickly observations and wild rants have earned him such accolades as being voted "Most Twisted Morning Deejay" in a Toronto Sun/KFC promotion.

"I get up an hour early and go through the newspapers," he explains. "When Mel made the going-to-Africa comment, I was able to play with that everyday -- it was the kind of thing I live for. Some days I've gotta settle for an old-woman-attacks-a-dog story. Other times -- there was a great thing that happened in New York -- a cop was drunk and he killed four people while driving. He was on his way to work!"

Robinson wasn't always a purveyor of socio-political commentary. Rather, he was long regarded as the "Sultan of Smut."

"I jumped into blue from the word go because Pryor was the man I wanted to emulate."

Booked to headline Montreal's Just For Laugh's infamous Nasty Show in 1989, Robinson was also slotted for one of the coveted for-broadcast gala spots at the St. Denis Theatre. But what washed at Club Soda would never play on TV.

Andy Nulman, then-CEO of the festival was, Robinson recalls, "the first one that tugged my sleeves, [believing]that I had something to say."

Robinson's set was strong enough that he was encouraged to clean up his act for good.

"I felt I had to prove to audiences that I could beat you dirty, now I can beat you clean. I went political and lost a lot of fans in the process."

One fan base's loss is another's gain.

Robinson began developing a wider audience and, he says, "more respect from the people in the power seats.

"In Canada, we have the opportunities and access to . . . the power brokers, whereas the U.S. is such a segregated society that you may never have contact with people like that.

"We may not have been invited, but we haven't been barred," he says with a snicker.

One of those power brokers was Ed Robinson, who while at the CBC saw Kenny's episode of Comics and later opened the door for Kenny's comedy special Thick and Thin , which was nominated for a Gemini Award.

And Ed Robinson, who is now Comedy Network president and general manager, continues to hold that door open. After Hours with Kenny Robinson is what Ed Robinson (no relation) describes as, "the evolution of Kenny's Nubian Disciples show; a forum that has been fundamental to the development of Canada's ethnic community."

"They weren't getting a lot of encouragement," says Kenny Robinson, who has spent the past six years cultivating the talents of young comics of colour, including Latinos, East and West Indians and Filipinos, some of whom will be seen on After Hours .

"Nobody was really looking after them and there might been, uh, even some people a bit detrimental towards their advancement," he says a little reluctantly. "I saw there was some potential and they needed someone to cover their back. I said if I don't do it who's gonna?"

Mark Breslin, the creator and CEO of Yuk Yuk's, insists, "We're the only club that has a commitment to providing a dedicated night for people of colour. We have over 10 people of colour on our permanent roster working across the country [out of 100] Ultimately, it's not about whether they're white or green or black or blue -- it's whether they're talented. In that sense we're also colour blind."

The first Nubian show turned away 200 and it continues to be one of Toronto's hottest draws, boasting a steady stream of celebrities, including members of the Toronto Raptors and Argonauts, Will Smith, Jada Pinkett, Jamie Fox and James McDaniels.

"It's sort of an idea whose time has come," Breslin says. "I think when you deprive people of a voice for long enough, when they do have the opportunity to express that voice they're very enthusiastically supportive."

Audiences, according to Robinson, remain 85 per cent black, but "most nights it seems the entire front row is Caucasian. I don't know if we still haven't got over that back-of-the-bus situation or they just get the front-row seats by divine birthright."

What might surprise some is that, in Robinson's experience, "white audiences tend to prefer my sexual-based material instead of political or topical, whereas black audiences tend to chill on me when I get graphic. So, it's a reversal of what's expected and what's accepted.

"The best advice I can give to a comic of colour," he says, "is don't listen to anybody talk about colour. Stay true to what you think is funny.

"But, then there's things that I will tell comics of colour that I can't share with anyone else -- not even the readers of The Globe and Mail." He adds with a smirk: "Especially the readers of The Globe and Mail." After Hours With Kenny Robinson premieres Sept. 22 at 11 p.m EDT on the Comedy Network.